#3379 Update 0x04g-Testing-Cryptography.md (#3385)
OWASP/mastg: Document/0x04g-Testing-Cryptography.md

Different Key Derivation Functions (KDFs) are suitable for various tasks, most commonly known for the following two:

- Key Derivation: the generation of keys from secret passwords or passphrases.
- Password storage: To prevent attackers from reading stolen passwords after a data breach, passwords should be stored as hashes generated by a resource-intensive Key Derivation Function (KDF).

KDFs derive bytes suitable for cryptographic operations from passwords or other data sources using a pseudorandom function (PRF). When discussing KDFs in the context of mobile applications, we are usually referring to cryptographic key derivation rather than password hashing and storage. Therefore, this chapter focuses primarily on KDFs in the context of cryptographic key derivation, not password storage. For general advice on password storage, please refer to the [OWASP Password Storage Cheat Sheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Password_Storage_Cheat_Sheet.html).
In short, we recommend:

- When using a KDF for cryptographic operations, always select **a recommended and approved KDF** and implement it according to the latest standards and the software provider's documentation.

> - Only use KDFs based on **secure hash functions** - that is, hashes for which no practical pre-image or length-extension attacks are known, and where directly attacking the KDF is computationally infeasible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Only use KDFs based on **secure hash functions** - weak hashes may be susceptible to attacks (i.e. preimage, length-extension)
```

Author: Weak may be misleading. The description, as it is written now, is correct.

> When using a password hashing algorithm as a KDF, also ensure you choose an appropriate iteration count that provides sufficient computational effort, making password- or secret-cracking attacks infeasible or expensive. For example, [NIST recommends an iteration count of at least 10,000 for PBKDF2](https://pages.nist.gov/800-63-3/sp800-63b.html#sec5 "NIST Special Publication 800-63B") and [for critical keys where user-perceived performance is not critical at least 10,000,000](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/Legacy/SP/nistspecialpublication800-132.pdf "NIST Special Publication 800-132"). For critical keys, it is recommended to implement algorithms recognized by the [Password Hashing Competition (PHC)](https://password-hashing.net/ "PHC"), such as [Argon2](https://github.com/p-h-c/phc-winner-argon2 "Argon2"). Also see ["OWASP Password Storage Cheat Sheet"](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Password_Storage_Cheat_Sheet.html#introduction "OWASP Cheat Sheet Series: Password Storage Cheat Sheet") for recommendations on iteration count when using KDFs using Argon2, scrypt, bcrypt, or PBKDF2.

Reviewer: Isn't that a bit contrary to the initial `Therefore, this chapter focuses primarily on KDFs in the context of cryptographic key derivation, not password storage.` ?

Author: I still think we can afford to cover this superficially to the extent that it currently is covered.

Author: @Diolor Please comment if you do not approve. Otherwise, we will close the discussion.

If the input is user-controlled, a password hashing algorithm like Argon2, scrypt, bcrypt, or PBKDF2 is used as a key derivation function to provide sufficient computational effort. Do not use an HKDF or any other integrity-based hashing algorithm like MD5, SHA-1, SHA-2, or SHA-3 for this purpose. HKDFs, like SHA-3, aren't designed for low-entropy inputs. In the context of key derivation, these should only be used for key stretching or key diversification of randomly generated keys.

> When using a password hashing algorithm as a KDF, also ensure to choose an appropriate iteration count that can provide sufficient computational efforts. Meaning that they make password or secret cracking attacks infeasible or expensive. For example, [NIST recommends an iteration count of at least 10,000 for PBKDF2](https://pages.nist.gov/800-63-3/sp800-63b.html#sec5 "NIST Special Publication 800-63B") and [for critical keys where user-perceived performance is not critical at least 10,000,000](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/Legacy/SP/nistspecialpublication800-132.pdf "NIST Special Publication 800-132"). For critical keys, it is recommended to implementation algorithms recognized by [Password Hashing Competition (PHC)](https://password-hashing.net/ "PHC") like [Argon2](https://github.com/p-h-c/phc-winner-argon2 "Argon2"). Also see ["OWASP Password Storage Cheat Sheet"](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Password_Storage_Cheat_Sheet.html#introduction "OWASP Cheat Sheet Series: Password Storage Cheat Sheet") for recommendation on iteration count when using key derivation functions using Argon2, scrypt, bcrypt or PBKDF2.

Author: I am unable to apply your suggestion as "Applying suggestions on deleted lines is currently not supported."
I'll apply your text directly. Sorry for that.

### Improper Random Number Generation

A common weakness in mobile apps is the improper use of random number generators. Regular Pseudo-Random Number Generators (PRNGs), while sufficient for general use, are not designed for cryptographic purposes. When used to generate keys, tokens, or other security-critical values, they can make systems vulnerable to prediction and attack.

> It is fundamentally impossible to produce truly random numbers on any deterministic device. Pseudo-random number generators (PRNG) compensate for this by producing a stream of pseudo-random numbers - a stream of numbers that appear as if they were randomly generated. The quality of the generated numbers varies with the type of algorithm used. Cryptographically secure PRNGs (CSPRNG) generate random numbers that pass statistical randomness tests, and are resilient against prediction attacks (e.g. it is statistically infeasible to predict the next number produced).

Reviewer: Let's use the same format (cap-first) everywhere like line 152?

```suggestion
It is fundamentally impossible to produce truly random numbers on any deterministic device. Pseudo-Random Number Generators (PRNGs) compensate for this by producing a stream of pseudo-random numbers - a stream of numbers that appear as if they were randomly generated. The quality of the generated numbers varies depending on the algorithm used. Cryptographically secure PRNGs (CSPRNGs) generate random numbers that pass statistical randomness tests, and are resilient against prediction attacks (e.g., it is statistically infeasible to predict the next number produced).
```
